[[index]]

= Contents =
  - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver|Lost Mine of Phandelver]]
    - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Character Notes|Character Notes]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Character Notes#Valfis|Valfis]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Character Notes#Balkax Pyraxtallinost|Balkax Pyraxtallinost]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Character Notes#Des P. Cito|Des P. Cito]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Character Notes#Schnitzel|Schnitzel]]
    - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#NPCs by location|NPCs by location]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#NPCs by location#Stonehill Inn|Stonehill Inn]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#NPCs by location#Barthen's Provisions|Barthen's Provisions]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#NPCs by location#Shrine of Luck|Shrine of Luck]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#NPCs by location#Edermath Orchard|Edermath Orchard]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#NPCs by location#Lionshield Coster|Lionshield Coster]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#NPCs by location#Townmaster's Hall|Townmaster's Hall]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#NPCs by location#Alderleaf Farm|Alderleaf Farm]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#NPCs by location#Phandalin Miner's Exchange|Phandalin Miner's Exchange]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#NPCs by location#Sleeping Giant Taphouse|Sleeping Giant Taphouse]]
    - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Part 3: The Spider's Web|Part 3: The Spider's Web]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Part 3: The Spider's Web#The Triboar Trail|The Triboar Trail]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Part 3: The Spider's Web#Old Owl Well|Old Owl Well]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Part 3: The Spider's Web#Thundertree|Thundertree]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Part 3: The Spider's Web#Conyberry and Agatha's Lair|Conyberry and Agatha's Lair]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Part 3: The Spider's Web#Wyvern Tor|Wyvern Tor]]
    - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Sessions|Sessions]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Sessions#Session 1: Beginning and Arrival at Cragmaw Hideout|Session 1: Beginning and Arrival at Cragmaw Hideout]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Sessions#Session 2: Navigating the Cragmaw Hideout|Session 2: Navigating the Cragmaw Hideout]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Sessions#Session 3: Finishing Cragmaw Hideout and Setting Off to Phandalin|Session 3: Finishing Cragmaw Hideout and Setting Off to Phandalin]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Sessions#Session 4: Brawl Outside the Sleeping Giant Taphouse|Session 4: Brawl Outside the Sleeping Giant Taphouse]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Sessions#Session 5: Entering Tresendar Manor|Session 5: Entering Tresendar Manor]]
      - [[#Lost Mine of Phandelver#Sessions#Session 6: Capture of Glasstaff|Session 6: Capture of Glasstaff]]

= Lost Mine of Phandelver =

== Character Notes ==

=== Valfis ===

* Level 3 dwarven cleric
* AC:
* PW:
* Story notes:
  - asd

=== Balkax Pyraxtallinost ===

* Level 3 dragonborn bard
* AC:
* PW:
* Story notes:
  - College of Lore
  - Bagpipes

=== Des P. Cito ===

* Level 3 halfling warlock
* AC:
* PW:
* Story notes:
  - Patron is the fiend

=== Schnitzel ===

* Level 3 half-orc paladin
* AC:
* PW:
* Story notes:
  - asd

== NPCs by location ==

=== Stonehill Inn ===

* Toblin Stonehill: innkeeper at the Stonehill Inn
  - Human male
  - Short, friendly
  - Native of Triboar, came to Phandalin to prospect
  - Knew more about innkeeping than mining
  - Angry about Redbrands and townmaster Harbin Wester doing nothing
  - Too scared to stir up trouble with Redbrands

* Narth, an old farmer
  - Talks about Sister Garaele leaving town for a few days and returning
    wounded.
  - See [[#Shrine of Luck]]

* Elsa, a gossipy barmaid
  - Talks about orchard keeper Daran Edermath being a former adventurer
  - See [[#Edermath Orchard]]

* Lanar, a miner
  - Talks about orc raiders having been seen on the east end of the Triboar
    trail. Townmaster looking for someone to run them off.
  - See [[#Townmaster's Hall]]

* Trilena, innkeeper's wife
  - Talks about local woodcarver Thel Dendrar standing up to the redbrands
    and being murdered. Wife and children have gone missing too.
  - (Unknown to players: wife + kids being held in Tresendar Manor)

* Pip, innkeeper's son
  - Talks about Qelline Alderleaf's son Carp finding a secret tunnel in the
    woods, but almost being caught by the Redbrands.
  - See [[#Alderleaf Farm]]

* Freda, a weaver
  - Talks about how Redbrands conveniently ignore the Phandalin Miner's
    Exchange. They don't want trouble with Halia Thornton.
  - See [[#Phandalin Miner's Exchange]]

=== Barthen's Provisions ===

* Run by Elmar Barthen, lean and balding middle aged human male
  - Pays 10GP to each player for delivery of supplies
  - Saddened by news of Gundren's capture
  - Tells him about two more Rockseeker brothers, Tharden and Nundro
  - Tells players the history of Wave Echo Cave
  - If asked about business, complains about Redbrands, tells players that
  - they frequent the [[#Sleeping Giant Taphouse]]

* Couple of young clerks, Ander and Thistle

=== Shrine of Luck ===

* Temple dedicated to Tymora, the goddess of luck and fortune
* In the care of acolyte named Sister Garaele, zealous young elf
  - Wants to rid Phandlin of the Redbrands
  - Member of the Harpers who advocate equality and covertly oppose
    the abuse of power.
  - Garaele was asked to persuade a banshee named Agatha to answer
    a question about a spellbook. The creature did not appear for her.
    * Wants an intermediary to bring banshee a silver jeweled comb,
      ask about the location of a spellbook belonging to legendary mage
      Bowgentle.
    * Says characters should flatter Agatha's vanity.
    * Offers the players three potions of healing.
    * See [[#Conyberry and Agatha's Lair]].
  - Garaele offers a player the position of *Watcher* in the Harpers if
    they complete her quest.

=== Edermath Orchard ===

* Daran Edermath, silver-haired half-elf
  - Member of the Order of the Gauntlet (basically protect the weak)
  - Concerned about the Redbrands, tells players they hang around at
    the [[#Sleeping Giant Taphouse]] and that the main hideout is at
    [[#Tresendar Manor]].
  - Also tells players about someone digging around at the [[#Old Owl Well]].
    Worried that dangerous magic might be dormant there.
  - If players clear out the [[#Old Owl Well]], offers them the position
    of *Chevall* in the Order of the Gauntlet.

=== Lionshield Coster ===

* Lionshieds are merchant company based in Yartar, hundred miles east
* This one is run by 35 year old human woman named Linene Graywind.
  - Knows that bandits have raided caravans on Triboar.
  - Keeps armor and weapons for sale to interested buyers, but doesn't
    sell to people who are a threat to Phandalin.
  - Refuses to sell to Redbrands.
  - Warns players to avoid [[#Sleeping Giant Taphouse]].
  - Gives reward of 50GP to players if they return the supplies from
    Cragmaw hideout.

=== Townmaster's Hall ===

* Townmaster is elected each year, currently a fat pompous fool named
  Harbin Wester who is under the thumb of the Redbrands.
  - Harbin is looking for someone to take out a band of orcs near
    [[#Wyvern Tor]].
* Sildar Hallwinter establishes himself in the Townmaster's Hall
  - Wants to find Wave Echo Cave and help the Rockseeker brothers get it
    back into operation.
  - Offers party a 500GP reward to locate [[#Cragmaw Castle]] and defeat or
    drive off the chieftain. Suggests the party search the land around the
    Triboar Trail for more scouting parties.
  - Also wants players to find Iarno Albrek. Rewards the players 200GP for
    killing or capturing him.
  - Offers a player the position of *Cloak* within the Lord's Alliance.

=== Alderleaf Farm ===

* Qelline Alderleaf, wise halfling that knows what's going on in town
  - Carp found the tunnel under Tresendar Manor, can take the characters
    there.
  - Has druid friend named Reidoth who might know the location of [[#Cragmaw Castle]]
    or [[#Wave Echo Cave]].
      * Tells players that Reidoth set out for town of [[#Thundertree]], just
        west of Neverwinter Wood.

=== Phandalin Miner's Exchange ===

* Weighs, measures, and pays out valuable finds to miners.
* Serves as unofficial records office.
* Guildmaster is Halia Thornton
  - Ambitious human woman.
  - Agent of Zhentarim, secret org that exerts control over the north thru
    wealth and influence.
  - Doesn't know location of [[#Cragmaw Castle]], but has heard that the Redbrands
    have a goblin that might know.
  - Offers characters 100GP to eliminate the redbrand leader, wants to take over
    Redbrands herself.
  - If the party disposes of the Redbrand leader, offers Zhentarim position of
    fang to one of the members.

=== Sleeping Giant Taphouse ===

* They already did this, so I'm not going to take too many notes.
* Run by dwarf named Grista who speaks mostly in grunts.
* Frequented by the Redbrands.

== Part 3: The Spider's Web ==

=== The Triboar Trail ===

* Uses overland map, party travels 24 miles per day over 10 hours.
* Characters need to rest for eight hours per day
* Remaining six hours for making/breaking camp 
* Wilderness encounters
  - See table in *Overview of Act 3* in Roll20

=== Old Owl Well ===

* Two day march northeast of Phandalin
* Ruined watchtower in the rugged hills south of the Triboar Trail.
* Prospectors noticed that someone has set up camp at the Old Owl Well,
  and undead guardians have been posted to keep intruders out.
  - Disruptor is an evil mage named Hamun Kost who hopes to find arcane
    lore left behind by the builders of the Old Owl Well.
    * Kost has sallow skin, shaved scalp, and black necromancy tattoo on head.
    * DC 10 Arcana check reveals the tattoo to be necromancy symbol.
    * DC 10 History check reveals garb to be of the land of Thay.
  - Players can reason with Kost
    * He wants the orcs at [[#Wyvern Tor]] removed, since they have scouted
      his camp and seem to want to cause trouble.
    * He wants to ask the banshee "What is the name of the wizard who built
      the Old Owl Well?". See [[#Conyberry and Agatha's Lair]].
  - Twelve zombies are inside the watchtower, can't be seen from outside.

=== Thundertree ===

* Mostly home to woodcutters and trappers
* Eruption of Mount Hotenow to the north devastated Thundertree
* Now populated by a plague of strange zombies
* Druid Reidoth visits Thundertree to keep an eye on its dangers
* Dragon cultists have arrived to treat with a dragon that claims Thundertree
  as its domain.

=== Conyberry and Agatha's Lair ===

* Triboar trail runs right through Conyberry
* Conyberry was sacked by barbarians years ago and now lies in ruins
* An easily seen trail leads west into the Neverwinter Wood.
* Read a whole bunch of flavor text....
* If characters are rude, disrespectful, or threatening, Agatha disappears
  without attacking or returning.
* If characters are polite, Agatha is persuaded to help with DC 15 Charisma check.
  - Agatha traded the book with a necromancer named Tsernoth from the city of Iriaebor
    more than a hundred years ago. She does not know what became of the book afterward.
* Banshee only answers one question -- characters may ask about anything, she answers
  truthfully.
  
=== Wyvern Tor ===

* Orc camp hidden in sizable hill
* Attempt a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) or DC 10 Wisdom (Survival) check per hour to find
  the camp
* Once find the cave, single orc keeping watch
* If orc is not silenced during surprise round, he runs away and warns rest of band
* Becomes basic combat encounter

== Sessions ==

=== Session 1: Beginning and Arrival at Cragmaw Hideout ===

=== Session 2: Navigating the Cragmaw Hideout ===

=== Session 3: Finishing Cragmaw Hideout and Setting Off to Phandalin ===

* Defeated Klarg the bugbear and his goblin minions.
* Schnitzel took one of Klarg's fingers
* Des found the golden frog with the ruby eyes

=== Session 4: Brawl Outside the Sleeping Giant Taphouse ===

=== Session 5: Entering Tresendar Manor ===

* Defeated Nothic
* Discovered true identity of Glasstaff
* Learned that Glasstaff was working under the Black Spider, a mysterious figure
  who sought to waylay the Rockseeker brothers and discover the entrance to Wave
  Echo Cave.
* Defeated the bugbears with the keys to Mirna/children's cell

=== Session 6: Capture of Glasstaff ===

* Glasstaff was captured via a sleep spell from Balkax
* Party will escort Mirna Dendrar, children, and Glasstaff back to Phandalin.
  - Mirna should remind party of family heirloom in [[#Thundertree]].
* Will bring Glasstaff to [[#Townmaster's Hall]].
  - Sildar Hallwinter is set up there. Should have convo with Glasstaff,
    who is a fellow member of the Lord's Alliance.
    * "How could you Iarno?", "You think so small, Sildar..." etc.
    * Iarno warns that "the Black Spider will have his way..."
  - Sildar suggests party should clear out [[#Cragmaw Castle]] to find Gundren
    and his map, or see what the other townsfolk need help with. See the above notes
    for roleplaying those characters.
    * They could seek out: Sister Garaele, Daran Edermath, Harbin Wester

==== Post Session 6 Notes ====

* Party incorporated Droop the goblin from Tresendar Manor
* Rescued the Dendrars
* Brought Iarno to lockup in the Townmaster's Hall
* Equipped themselves at the Lionshield Coster
  - Linene told them they might find potions and poisons at Barthen's Provisions
* Des found the horde of the Nothic; Balkax took Talon and learned of its history
  from Harbin Wester.
* Schnitzel cooked all night with Martin the teenage chef at the Stonehill Inn,
  producing _okay_ food.
* Des spoke with Sister Garaele and learned of Agatha the Banshee.
* The party set out on the road to Conyberry in search of Agatha.
* Party fought 5 hobgoblins on the road to Conyberry
  - Don't think they got XP yet, 500XP divided among the party
* Party intends to find Agatha and move on to Wyvern Tor
* *NOTE*: incorporate backstories for next time!!!

=== Session 7 ===

* Party made way to Conyberry 
